# Ideals
The "Internet of Things" (IoT) revolution is about the world of sensors,
software, and electronics. It allows for ubiquitous, low-cost, and high quality
measurements of many things, including our Earth system. Due to low
cost-barriers, these sensing systems are now broadly accessible to many
communities. We hope that openIoTwx can continue piquing new interest in measurements and data relating to the all
aspects of our environment around us. We advise all members of our community to
review and regularly reflect on the core ideals outlined here.

The goals and core ideals of the openIoTwx project is _to advance low cost IoT
based geoscience observational projects_ via four objectives that align with and
build upon the National Science Foundation's (NSF) investments in the EarthCube
Community, ACCESS/Jetstream, 3D printed weather stations (aka "openIoTWx") and
future needs:

(1) create an open, diverse, community-driven and community-managed ecosystem to
empower fledgling open source sensor projects for open environmental sensing.

(2) implement an efficient, scalable, and simplified open project submission and
contribution framework to provide equitable access across disciplines,
stakeholders, institutions, and demographics to grow a community managed suite
of open source IoT observational sensor network projects;

(3) building upon NSFâ€™s Cloud-Hosted Real-time Data Services for the Geosciences
(CHORDS) and other components, develop a robust, decentralized, and flexible
community software contribution platform to bring the open source project
development and design cycle into a new collaborative and cooperative
environment to spur sustainable community growth; 

(4) provide cyber-infrastructure (CI) integration through the ACCESS innovation
pilot program to manage dataflows, analysis, address artificial intelligence and
machine learning of earth science time series streams, creating open source
community deployments that are accessible while recognizing and honoring data
sovereignty aspects of our communities.

## Opensource is at our core
Our community holds the ideals of open source technology very close (for more
see [https://opensource.org](https://opensource.org)). openIoTwx broadly
promotes the MIT open source license and is accessible to all for non-commercial
use. Open source is an important ideal for our community because it facilitates
community engagement, provides transparency that builds trust and encourages
sharing of data, code, hardware  community earth system science data and ideas.

## FAIR and CARE 
We are committed to the Findability, Accessibility, Interoperability, and Reuse
(FAIR) of all digital assets (see
[https://www.go-fair.org/fair-principles/](https://www.go-fair.org/fair-principles/))
needed to design, modify, build, deploy, analyze and archive the openIoTwx
station. The FAIR principle as defined by GO-FAIR.ORG is a core value that will
help make this community open and accessible to all.

We balance adherence to FAIR principles with CARE
([https://www.gida-global.org/care](https://www.gida-global.org/care)) or
Collective Benefit, Authority to Control, Responsibility, and Ethics. This is
important for our community members from tribal communities and
other marginalized groups. Please review the CARE principle
summary as linked above.

## FPIC 
Free Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) is a specific right that pertains to
indigenous peoples and is recognised in the United Nations Declaration on the
Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP). It allows them to give or withhold
consent to a project that may affect them or their territories. This is another
core ideal of the openIoTwx community and should also be reviewed. (for
more see [https://www.fao.org/indigenous-peoples/our-pillars/fpic/en/](https://www.fao.org/indigenous-peoples/our-pillars/fpic/en/))
