# Platform

openIoTwx is a diverse open source community committed to increasing
accessibility of the weather observation hardware, software, data, and
computation value chain. This is achieved through the portability and modularity
features of the openIoTwx platform. The body of openIoTwx can be installed in
segments or as a complete system with up to 7 sensors or "nodes" ranging from
sky cams, digital rain sensors, and sonic anemometers to a modified radiation
shield which can hold air quality sensors and typical temperature, pressure,
relative humidity sensors. The platform is small enough to mount anywhere using
low cost commercial off-the-shelf materials and 3D printed parts.

The platform allows for customization of sensors and modules that can be
attached to openIoTwx body using the universal one inch screw-in connectors.
This approach allows for any 1" PVC pipe or other threaded connector to be used
as a stand. This specification was chosen due to how commonly available it is to
find components that fit. The body of the station has threaded connectors (three
across the top, and four across the bottom) to provide a universal and broad
shell or platform that our community can build upon.  Users are provided with a
starter set of screw in adaptors for an initial set of sensors such as the RG15
digital rain sensor, Sonic anemometer, camera, and radiation shields. We also
provide screw in connectors with a cap so that users can cap of connectors not
in use and deploy. Should a user want to attach a new sensor, they can modify
the 3D Printed connector adaptor design files provided to hold their device so
that it can be attached via the one inch screw-in connector.